[Music]
how to escape from a sinking car in
order to survive in an extreme situation
you'd better make sure you know what to
do in advance after all when it's crunch
time you might only have seconds to act
there are two very important steps in
this unfortunate situation as soon as
the car makes contact with the water
unfasten your seat belt and roll down
the window as fast as you can once
you've done that immediately vacate the
car through the open window before the
vehicle becomes submerged and that's
basically it if there are no unexpected
problems remember that you'll only have
about a minute to complete these two
steps before the car sinks completely
underwater
do not waste time trying to open the
door it simply will not budge because of
the force of the water pressing on it
from the outside memorize the sequence
unfasten the seatbelt lower the window
climb out of the car it's your only
chance of survival a crank window will
give you the best means of escape but
here's a promising fact according to
test results a cars electronics continue
to function for at least 10 minutes
after it becomes submerged so if you
have power windows you can still get out
now let's look at some possible hiccups
you might encounter
[Music]
if you can't get the window to roll down
break it the quicker you react the
better
don't even try breaking the windshield
it's made of extra strong crash
resistant triplex safety glass there are
actually tons of online shops that offer
special car window braking tools at
affordable prices so just look it up on
the Internet
buy one and keep it in your car another
option is to use some heavy object with
a pointed tip like a hammer wrench or
heavy screwdriver if you don't have any
of these you can use a stiletto heel or
simply your elbow if your car seats have
removable headrests you can also use the
metal prongs at the end of those aim
your blows at the corners of the window
where the glass is weaker if there are
children in the car make sure to shove
them out ahead of yourself in fact
experts recommend the following plan of
action first unbuckle your seat belt and
lower your window only after your window
is open should you help your children in
the case of just one child unfasten
their seat belt and push them out ahead
of you if there are several children
help them from oldest to youngest once
you've gotten your kids out leave the
car yourself older children are first
since they can potentially help the
younger ones that way everybody gets out
safely
if you absolutely can't get out through
the window wait until the car fills
completely with water and then open the
door it seems like the craziest and
scariest thing ever but it works waiting
for some time will allow the pressure
inside and outside the car to equalize
experts recommend keeping a firm grip on
the door handle while the water fills
the inside when the inside and outside
pressure is equal out take a deep breath
of the last bit of air open the door and
swim out remember that the door will not
open easily you may have to push it with
your feet so be ready for that
follow the air bubbles to find your way
to the surface when you've successfully
gotten out of your car you can easily
become disoriented underwater this is
because the water around the sinking car
gets murky and clouded it could also
simply be due to pure fear and panic to
find your way out swim in the same
direction as the rising air bubbles they
will lead you to the surface now let's
go through the 2-step survival plan once
again as soon as the car hits the water
unfasten your seat belt roll down or
break the window and get out as quickly
as you can let's hope that you'll never
actually have to put the knowledge to
use but it's always better to be safe
than sorry
isn't it so do you know any other tips
on how to deal with an extreme situation
like a sinking car tell us in the
comment section below don't forget to
give us a thumbs up share this video
with your friends and subscribe to our
channel that way you'll always stay up
to date on the bright side of life